Amazon Simple Storage Service or S3 is an object storage system in the Cloud.
Think of it like a file system in the Cloud where you load files such as text documents,
image files, HTML files,
whatever you need to store.
When you upload a file to S3,
it gets a unique URL that can then be used to access it.
All objects or files are stored in what's called a bucket,
and one bucket can hold millions of objects.
S3 buckets live in a region,
but bucket names must be globally unique.
S3 is designed for durability of 99.99s of objects across
multiple availability zones and 99.99 availability over a given year.
Wow, that is excellent durability and availability.
There are several use cases for S3,
hosting static websites, content delivery,
backup and recovery, archiving and big data,
application data, and hybrid cloud storage.
There are several S3 storage classes.
Storage classes are essentially different data access levels
for your data at certain price points.
One storage class called S3 Glacier is more for data archiving purposes,
and you should place data there that you don't intend to access frequently.
Glacier is cheaper than the S3 standard class,
but data retrieval can be a few minutes up to hours.
So when would you want to use Glacier over the S3 standard class?
Suppose you have an application that generates a lot of log files every month,
and for audit purposes,
you need to keep those files around.
You don't intend to access those files often,
but they do need to be made available once a year to the auditors.
Glacier would be the perfect place to preserve
those files since they would be infrequently accessed.